---
date: 2026-01-15
title: Exploring food with Zongjian Li (from Advanced NLP class)
tags: [food, usc]
mood: [happy]
location: Culver City
weather: Cloudy, 65°F
time: 7:00 PM
timezone: PST
---

In the AdvancedNLP class (on Wednesday), Prof. Xiang Ren made all students introduce themselves with each student having a slide about themselves and one intereseting fact about themselves infront of the class. Zongjian stood up and mentioned she was a PhD student at ISI and the fun fact that she likes to explore food in LA and others may contact her if they are also interested. I emailed her immediately in the class itself and she responded in a short while. We exchanged contact and over messages, I suggested Cali Tandoor restaurant in Culver city. Friday evening 7:00 PM worked out for both of us. She enjoyed the food there and at the end I suggested her Mango Lassi and also shared some Rasmalai I had ordered. Then afterwards around 9:10 we walked upto Samosa House (a few blocks aways from there). After my recommentdation, she picked kulfi icecream from the store and mentioned it was great too. From our conversation that night, she mentioned how she is from Dalian (Liaoning province), went to Fudan for electrical engineering, was a competitive coder in highschool, how she felt teaching was bad in Fudan and the techers did not care to teach, how she built a script to automate some mundane tasks in a hugely popular (at that time) online webpage game in China and made it free for everyone and then realized people were selling her code after which she made upgraded versions and sold them herself using hardware fingerprinting to issue software that worked only on the machine that it was meant for and then how she sold it on Taobao without a formal company (gray area) and made a lots of money (some of which was spent on her EE masters at USC). The money she made was enough to let her explore goo restaurant food in Shanghai. She didn't spend too much focus on classes and dedicated all time to improving the script for the game as more and more feature requests came due to which her GPA plummeted to 2.9 out of 4.0. At USC, she maintained a 4.0 GPA in masters and in PhD now. She graduated from masters at height of pandemic and started working at ISI as a researcher. Later due to funding cuts, she had to convert to a PhD as her OPT ran out and the funding cuts around 2023 (before Trump) meant she would not get an H1B. Her mentor/advisor wanted her to stay so they decided she can start a PhD at USC. At USC, she has been exploring many classes like Guitar, Piano, Dance, Golf, Swimming, etc and she tries to max out her credit of 12 units whenever she has a chance. I mentioned about Tianjin Jianbing and she said next time we can explore a place in San Gabriel that is run by Tianjin people and we can get authentic crispy Jianbing there.
